[Music]
welcome to BASF we create chemistry so
it makes sense that we should
familiarize you with the basic chemistry
taught in our poly urethanes Academy
we're going to simplify things a bit in
this video and at the same time cover a
lot of topics so let's get started first
let's introduce you to two of our
leading characters by societies or ISO
and resin let's talk about ISO first
when we make ISO we do so in very large
quantities for our purposes today there
are only a few types of eye soaps pure
MD eyes and TV eyes that's their
nicknames form long and squiggly
chemical structures that's because they
have fewer places to connect to they are
generally used to make flexible products
like seat cushions mattresses and
sealants polymeric MD eyes have many
more places to plug into which creates
more of the structure they are generally
used to make you guessed it rigid
products like picnic coolers foam
insulation and wood boards now when our
customers make a resin they create a
custom formula of additives that include
polygons also supplied by BASF which are
the backbone of the mix polyols make the
majority of the mix kind of like flour
is to a cake batter
polyols determine the physical
properties of the product like how soft
or hard the product is
catalysts they control the speed of the
chemical reaction and how quickly it
cures surfactants determine the cell
structure and influence the flow
pigments determine the color flame
retardants make it savory adhesion
promoters make it stickier and finally
blowing agents help determine the
density and foaming action
at BASF we're proud to supply raw
materials that help our customers
innovate and succeed on ISOs and polyols
combined to make custom formulas for our
customers custom formulas that produce
unique products that are flexible rigid
[Music]
just the way end-users like them so
there you have it the basics of
polyurethanes from BASF we create
chemistry